## Last Mile Security

As API developers we often tend to focus more on building what we think are the most secure APIs. We give little to no recognition of the fact that we have very little control over how the consumers of the API are going to treat the API keys, secrets and tokens that our APIs issue. 

In the old days, when everyone was building classical server-side websites, issuing a static API key was usually enough to ensure the security of the API. It also worked for smartphone apps as the breach of smartphone apps was not common. With the rise of single page applications and increased vulnerability of smartphone apps, static API keys are becoming a dangerous proposition. Most developers are moving to token-based API authorisation schemes like OAuth 2.0 and OpenId Connect but even they have their own best practices to be aware of. All said and done, any API security scheme comes down to protecting the tokens from being stolen or preventing stolen tokens from being used.   

In this talk, I will go over the story of a developer. Let's call him Joe. Joe has put out a public API for the first time. Joe has protected his API using API keys. But Joe has little control over how the consumers of this API are handling this key. If this key gets stolen then it would probably be a long time before Joe can even know. Joe does some digging and figures out that he can better secure his API if he uses a token-based system like OAuth 2.0 or OpenId Connect. Joe still cannot control how the tokens get handled but Joe is able to control the damage by limiting the time that tokens are valid for. It just so happens, Joe now has an API consumer in the form of a mobile app and there is a need for the tokens to last long, like for a month. Joe is back to square one. It would be a month before Joe can find out if the token is being misused. 